<html>

<head>
    <title>QuickGO Installation Manual</title>
</head>
<body>

<div style="border:2px solid #f9a200;padding:2px;">
    <div style="background:#f9a200;margin:-2px -2px 0 -2px;padding:2px;font-weight:bold;">
        Terms of License
    </div>
    <pre>
Copyright 2012 European Molecular Biology Laboratory

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    <a href="http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0">http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0</a>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
    </pre>
</div>

<h3>Prerequisites</h3>
<p>
    Java (version 1.6.0_01 and above) is required. Java is available for most plaforms from <a href='http://java.sun.com'>java.sun.com</a>.
</p>
<p>
    For the complete version of QuickGO, with the full data set, a computer with at least 1GB of RAM and 15GB of disk space is required.
</p>
<h3>Download</h3>
<p>
    Get both software and data together, ready to go: <a href='http://www.ebi.ac.uk/QuickGO/download/data/mini/QuickGO5.1-latest.zip'>QuickGO + human subset data</a>.
</p>
<p>
    Or get the resources you need:
</p>

<ol>
    <li><a href='http://www.ebi.ac.uk/QuickGO/download/QuickGO5.1.zip'>QuickGO</a> software
        containing source code, a war file (tested on Tomcat 5.5) and an executable jar file (using an embedded Jetty webserver)
    </li>
    <li>Data from <a href='http://www.ebi.ac.uk/QuickGO/download/data/mini/'>human subset</a> [~150MB disk space required]
    or <a href='http://www.ebi.ac.uk/QuickGO/download/data/full/'>all data</a> [~14GB] </li>
</ol>
<p>
    If you don't download data, the software will automatically download the required data from the QuickGO website.
</p>
<p>
    The human subset data consists of manual annotations to proteins recorded for Human in UniProtKB.
</p>

<h3>Installation</h3>
<p>
    1) Unzip QuickGO zipfile (you can put it on a memory stick if you wish)
</p>
<p>
    2) QuickGO can be started:
</p>
<ul>
    <li>Windows: run <code>run.bat</code> </li>
    <li>MacOS X, Linux, etc: run <code>run.sh</code> </li>
    <li>Others:<div><code>
        java -Xmx256m -jar QuickGO5.1.jar --config quickgo-config-mini.xml --port 8080 --root /QuickGO --password changeme
    </code></div></li>
</ul>

<p>
    The full version can be run by changing the script or the command to refer to quickgo-config.xml.
    You may need to expand the maximum memory (the -Xmx option on the command line or in scripts) to -Xmx1024m
</p>

</body>
</html>